feat: Unauthorized sign-in (#1668)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/security/unauthorized-sign-in.mdx

---
title: Unauthorized sign-in

> description: Notify users of unauthorized sign-ins to their accounts

Reviewer: Are you sure you meant this? It doesn't really make sense when I'm reading it

## Detecting unauthorized sign-ins

Whenever a sign-in attempt is completed from an unfamiliar device, Clerk sends an email notification to the account owner with information about the newly created session.

The account owner can then choose to immediately revoke this session.

## Email notification for unauthorized access

The email notification users receive for unauthorized sign-ins varies depending on the instance's configuration and the application's billing plan.

By default, the email includes information about the unauthorized sign-in attempt, such as device type, operating system, IP address, location, and the sign-in method used. If you've set a support email for your app, Clerk will add instructions for the user to contact the app administrator.

For instances which support device tracking, the email will also include a button allowing users to sign out from the unrecognized device. Clicking this button immediately revokes the session.

Customize the unauthorized sign-in email notification:

1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**Emails**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=customization/email) page.

> 1. Select the **Sign in from new device** option. You'll be redirected to the template settings page.

Author: Well, the email template has been renamed to "Sign in from new device".

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d97a3332-b8ad-477a-adaf-e74fab92af96)

1. Edit the email template and apply your changes.

## Session revocation for unauthorized sign-ins

> [!WARNING]
> This feature isn't available in production for free plans. However, you can try it out free in development mode. For more information, see the [pricing](/pricing){{ target: '_blank' }} page.

> For apps that support it, users can immediately revoke unauthorized sign-ins directly from the email notification. A single click will revoke the suspicious session and redirect the user to a confirmation page. The contents of the confirmation page depend on the instance's configuration.

Author: :smile: This was copied in verbatim by a previous review suggestion. Updated it nonetheless.

---
title: Unauthorized sign-in
description: Notify users of unauthorized sign-ins to their accounts
---

Clerk identifies attempts by unauthorized individuals or entities to access a user's account.

## Detecting unauthorized sign-ins

Whenever a sign-in attempt is completed from an unfamiliar device, Clerk sends an email notification to the account owner with information about the newly created session.

> The account owner can then choose to immediately revoke this session.

Reviewer: it says "The account owner can then choose to immediately revoke this session" I thought session revocation wasn't for free plans?

> The account owner can then choose to immediately revoke this session.

Author: That's correct. Session revocation is available in a paid add-on. Applications on the free plan cannot use the feature. My intention here was to describe the feature in full and then provide more details on session revocation below.

Perhaps we should be clear about revoke and the free plan here as well?

To configure this feature:

1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**Emails**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=customization/email) page.

> 1. Select the **New Client Sign In** option. You'll be redirected to the template settings page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Sign in from new client**. You'll be redirected to the template settings page.
```

> 1. Toggle **Delivered by Clerk** to enable the feature.

Author: This will change soon. The correct way to enable/disable the feature needs an Emails page redesign which should be landing soonish.

I won't merge this PR before the new redesign is live and I update this step.

By default, the email includes information about the unauthorized sign-in attempt, such as device type, operating system, IP address, location, and the sign-in method used. If you've set a support email for your app, Clerk will add instructions for the user to contact the app administrator.

For supported instances, the email might also include a button allowing users to sign out from the unrecognized device. Clicking this button immediately revokes the session.

Customize the unauthorized sign-in email notification:

1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**Emails**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=customization/email) page.
1. Select the **New Client Sign In** option. You'll be redirected to the template settings page.
1. Edit the email template and apply your changes.

## Session revocation for unauthorized sign-ins

> [!WARNING]
> This feature isn't available in production for free plans. However, you can try it out free in development mode. For more information, see the [pricing](/pricing){{ target: '_blank' }} page.

> For apps that support it, users can immediately revoke unauthorized sign-ins directly from the email notification. A single click will revoke the suspicious session and redirect the user to a confirmation page. The contents of the confirmation page depend on the instance's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For supported instances, the email might also include a button allowing users to immediately revoke unauthorized sign-ins. Clicking this button revokes the suspicious session and redirects the user to a confirmation page. The contents of the confirmation page depend on the instance's configuration.
```

Reviewer: is this configurable? it says "for supported instances", so what instances are supported? when will the email include the button to revoke the session?

Author: The "supported instances" are either development instances or production instances for an application on a paid add-on.

---
title: Unauthorized sign-in
description: Clerk notifies users for unauthorized sign-ins to their accounts.
---

Clerk identifies attempts by unauthorized individuals or entities to access a user's account.

## Detecting unauthorized sign-ins

Whenever a sign-in attempt is completed from a device that hasn't been used before by the user who is the account owner, Clerk sends an email notification to the account owner with information about the newly created session.

The account owner can choose to immediately revoke the session in question.

To configure this feature:

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active).
1. In the secondary navigation header, select **Configure**.
1. From the navigation sidebar, select **Emails** under the **Customization** menu group.
1. Locate the **New client sign in** email template and click on the toggle next to it in order to disable the feature.

> 1. You can customize the email content, similar to how you can customize the rest of the email templates. See [Email and SMS templates](/docs/authentication/configuration/email-sms-templates) for more information.

Author: @victoriaxyz The feature is not yet live. The release is a bit blocked. I thought I would start working on the docs while I was waiting to be unblocked.

The __New client sign in__ email template is not visible in production yet. It's present on our staging environment, and after we release the feature in production we can merge this PR.

> 1. You can customize the email content, similar to how you can customize the rest of the email templates. See [Email and SMS templates](/docs/authentication/configuration/email-sms-templates) for more information.

Author: There's another change that's yet to be released and that is the part about enabling/disabling the email from the list.

In the future, dashboard users will be able to toggle certain emails on or off. This is not yet live. I've updated the instructions with your suggestions for now, and I'll make sure I change them once the new functionality becomes available.

Thanks for taking a look and sorry for any confusion.

## Email notification for unauthorized access

The email notification that users receive when Clerk detects an unauthorized sign-in can vary depending on the instance's configuration and the application's billing plan.

By default, the email contains information about the unauthorized sign-in, like the type of the device, operating system, IP address and location and the method that was used for signing in.

If you've set a support email for your application, Clerk will include instructions for the user to contact the application's administrator.

Finally, for instances that support it, the email content can include a button to sign out of the unrecognized device. When clicked, this button will immediately revoke the suspicious session.

To customize the unauthorized sign-in email notification:

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active).
1. In the secondary navigation header, select **Configure**.
1. From the navigation sidebar, select **Emails** under the **Customization** menu group.
1. Locate the **New client sign in** email template and select it.

> 1. Edit the email template and apply your changes.

Author: Yes, it's 90% the same. :smile:

> 1. Edit the email template and apply your changes.

Author: Updated with the suggestion.

## Email notification for unauthorized access

> When a sign-in attempt is made from an unfamiliar device, Clerk notifies the account owner by email with details about the newly created session. The email notification varies depending on the instance's configuration and the application's billing plan.

Reviewer: I've removed "The account owner can immediately revoke the session if it's recognized as unauthorized." as this is only available for certain supported instances. So now, we can combine the first and third sentence, and it flows very nicely.
